# Lilly Technical Challenge Documentation Template

*This documentation template serves as a place for you to discuss how you approached this challenge, any issues you faced & how you overcame them, or any other points that you feel would be relevant for the interviewers to know. The text in italics is here to guide you - feel free to remove it once you fill out each section!*

***Not every section in this document is required. This is just a template to help get you started. Feel free to add or remove sections as you feel necessary.***

## Approach
To get started on the problems I used the Postman extension in VScode to test all the endpoints and make sure the server could run successfully. Once I tested all endpoints and vonfirmed they were all working I could use the fetch function in JavaScript to start connecting the frontend and backend.
Then to solidify my JavaScript knowledge and prepare myself for the bulk of the challenge I used AI to help self teach myself how syntax in Python would be written in javaScript. This helped me gain astronger understanding of certain important concepts that I would need later for the challenge.

To create the HTML I mixed my own knowledge with other online solutions to create a table and format the page so that the buttons would fit alongside the table without the user having to scroll. I added a new tag I made called group which was used to help position different 'groups' for the forms together and to the side of the main table.

For my CSS customisations I made use of W3Schools and their different web pages for CSS customisations to help choose how to style my web page when there were styles I had not used before but needed to add. To choose the colour for the web page I found Lilly's CSS through the website and used the same hexadecimal colour code as they used to fit the theming/colouring. I found that their website had good explanations of how different style sheets could be customised.

## Objectives - Innovative Solutions
I'm particularly proud of my JavaScript frontend code as starting out I had less history with JavaScript than other languages, but feel over the course of the challenge I taught myself how it might differentiate from languages I have a stronger skillset with. In the end I was able to design and engineer a strong solution which used JavaScript to form a user-friendly website and well developed readable code.
I am more specifically proud of my renderMedicines function which take the data of the json database and presents it in a readable HTML format ready for the index.html to use. This was particularly complex and the biggest challenge personally when starting the project, but I managed to work past it after teaching my self new techniques which I used as the base of the functions - for example the fetch and insertAdjacentHtml methods as well as async and await.

I am also proud of my get_average_med_price function as it was the endpoint I got to create myself. Not only was this somthing I had not done in python before but it was also the one part of the project which stretched from the backend in the database right the way through to the user end of the frontend which was solely programmed by me. I also enjoyed being able to use my previous technical expertise to complete the challenge as much of the challenge required me to use new concepts. This made me proud that I proved to myself I could do every part of the project despite finding it intimidating to start.

A small extra I was proud of that I added was a loading column in the HTML table in the case that the data had not yet loaded or the server had not yet connected. This was a small feature that I liked as an extra little touch to allow for data not yet loaded.

## Problems Faced
My first problem when tackling the project was setting up my venv and checking the endpoints with Postman. I managed to install the venv correctly and then had to use Postman which was a new software for me. I found it very useful and it is a new skill I now have as a software engineer going forward, which I feel confident using whenever I am faced with a similair challemne.

I didnt initially get the correct responses with the postman and found that the update didnt always show the correct output, using my past experiences and problem solving skills I found that restarting the application would lead to a correct output and would prove the endpoint was functioning correctly. 

I have used JavaScript before but it was not my strongest language, I have previously worked more thoroughly with Python and had not used JavaScript to this extent before this challenge so had to learn myself some new programming techniques. I originally tried to tackle the problem by diving head first into the JavaScript but realised   !!! I needed to take a step back and refocus instead of going straight in. I then realised how Postman would be important to help me complete the challenge and decided to put some time into the endpoints instead. Which in the end I found was massively helpful and I was able to complete the challenge.

I ran into a couple of problems when trying to create and test my own endpoint in postman with the server but quickly figured it out. The most notable of which was the "internal server error" which I tried to debug myself and then using the internet. However by the time I had switched back on to VScode my endpoint was working and producing the right output!

## Evaluation
I found the problem to start with quite daunting as it was unique and different to any problems I had faced before. However the novelty of the new challenge also gave me an energy which I took into this challenge that gave me a real desire to overcome it. I found a strong sense of motivation to get myself started and once I got going I found it very enjoyable to create something in a way which was unique to anything I had done previously. 
I found I used a little more than the allocated time so decided to allow myself a bit of time to plan for the code and to learn new techniques in JavaScript as it is not my strongest area of expertise, but once I had readied myself for the challenge I enjoyed the problem solving it made me do and how it challenged me in new ways.
If I had more time I would like to have made a few key changes. For instance I would have like to have had the numbers in the table better formatted as a currency as they currently only show the significant digits. I would also have liked to have had a feature where null data wasn't shown in the table, however due to time constraints I had to settle with a fallback which showed N/A if there was no data. Beyond this I would have made the data values for medicine names not case sensitive. This way there would be less likely to be mis-inputs.
Overall I massively enjoyed working on this challenge and feel my abilities as a software engineer impoved significantly throughout the process. Despite not instantaneously knowing how to solve the problem I used my previous experiences and problem solving skills to turn my concepts and ideas into a solution I faced and create a functional solution - which I am proud of!
